Create DASG Pull Request Template (#1)
CMSgov/cms-oeda-dasg: .github/pull_request_template.md

<!--
You've got a Pull Request you want to submit? Awesome!
This PR template is here to help ensure you're setup for success:
  please fill it out to help ensure that your PR is complete and ready for approval.
-->

**JIRA Ticket:**
[SOMEPROJECT-42](https://jira.cms.gov/browse/SOMEPROJECT-42)

**User Story or Bug Summary:**
<!-- Please copy-paste the brief user story or bug description that this PR is intended to address. -->

### What Does This PR Do?

<!--

> Add detailed discussion of changes here
> This is likely a summary, or the complete contents, of your commit messages.

Author: ```suggestion
Add detailed description & discussion of changes here.
The contents of this section should be used as your commit message (unless you merge the PR via a merge commit, of course).

Please follow standard Git commit message guidelines:
* First line should be a capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary.
* The rest of the message should be in standard Markdown format, wrapped to 72 characters.
* Describe your changes in imperative mood, e.g. "make xyzzy do frotz" instead of "[This patch] makes xyzzy do frotz" or "[I] changed xyzzy to do frotz", as if you are giving orders to the codebase to change its behavior.
* List all relevant Jira issue keys, one per line at the end of the message, per: <https://confluence.atlassian.com/jirasoftwarecloud/processing-issues-with-smart-commits-788960027.html>.

Reference: <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project>.
```

### What Needs to Be Merged and Deployed Before this PR?

<!--
Add some items to the following list, or remove the entire section if it doesn't apply.

Common items include:
* Database migrations (which should always be deployed by themselves, to reduce risk).
* New features in external dependencies (e.g. BFD).
-->

This PR cannot be either merged or deployed until the following pre-requisite changes have been fully deployed:

* CMSgov/some_repo#42

### Submitter Checklist

<!--
Helpful hint: if needed, Git allows you to edit your PR's commits and history, prior to merge.
See these resources for more information:

* <https://dev.to/maxwell_dev/the-git-rebase-introduction-i-wish-id-had>
* <https://raphaelfabeni.com/git-editing-commits-part-1/>
-->

I have gone through and verified that...:

* [ ] This PR is reasonably limited in scope, to help ensure that:
    1. It doesn't unnecessarily tie a bunch of disparate features, fixes, refactorings, etc. together.
    2. There isn't too much of a burden on reviewers.
    3. Any problems it causes have a small "blast radius".
    4. It'll be easier to rollback if that becomes necessary.

> * [ ] The commits in this PR:
>     1. Reasonably explain the "what" and "why" of the changes.
>     2. Leverage JIRA's [smart commits](https://confluence.atlassian.com/jirasoftwarecloud/processing-issues-with-smart-commits-788960027.html) to reference the JIRA ticket that they're associated with. For example, aim for commit messages like this (note also [the 50/72 formatting](https://stackoverflow.com/q/2290016) used here):
>         
>         ```
>         Added the whizbang to the doodad.
> 
>         The new whizbang should really simplify things for our whoosit users.
>         It was a bit tricky to get it into the doodad, but we decided that the
>         flipwhee pattern was the best approach for now. Might want to revisit
>         that in the future if it ends up being too hard to maintain.
> 
>         SOMEPROJECT-42
>         ```
>         

Author: ```suggestion
* [ ] I have named this PR and its branch such that they'll be automatically be linked to the (most) relevant Jira issue, per: <https://confluence.atlassian.com/adminjiracloud/integrating-with-development-tools-776636216.html>.
```

<!--
You've got a Pull Request you want to submit? Awesome!
This PR template is here to help ensure you're setup for success:
  please fill it out to help ensure that your PR is complete and ready for approval.
-->

**JIRA Ticket:**

> <https://jira.cms.gov/browse/xxxx>

Reviewer: [PROJ-xxx](https://jira.cms.gov/browse/PROJ-xxx)
`[PROJ-xxx](https://jira.cms.gov/browse/PROJ-xxx)`
will auto format the link nicely, where PROJ is the JIRA project code and xxx is replaced with the ticket #

Author: I would normally agree with you, but here I _think_ it makes more sense to optimize for speed in filling out the template (by going with just the bare link). What do you think?

Reviewer: I think you click the link more often that you type it.

> **User Story or Bug Summary:**

Reviewer 2: Can this section be labeled "Description" instead?

-->

### What Should Reviewers Watch For?

If you're reviewing this PR, please check these things, in particular:

* TODO

<!--
Add some items to the list above, or remove the entire section if it doesn't apply for some reason.

Common items include:
* Is this likely to address the goals expressed in the user story?
* Are any additional documentation updates needed?
* Are there any unhandled and/or untested edge cases you can think of?
* Is user input properly sanitized & handled?
* Does this make any backwards-incompatible changes that might break end user clients?
* Can you find any bugs if you run the code locally and test it manually?
-->

### What Security Implications Does This PR Have?

Submitters should complete the following questionnaire:

* If the answer to any of these questions is **Yes**, then here's a link to the associated Security Impact Assessment: N/A.
    * Does this PR add any new software dependencies? **Yes** or **No**.
    * Does this PR modify or invalidate any of our security controls? **Yes** or **No**.
    * Does this PR store or transmit data that was not stored or transmitted before? **Yes** or **No**.

> * If the answer to any of these questions is **Yes**, then please add @StewGoin as a reviewer, and note that this PR should not be merged unless/until he also approves it.

Reviewer 2: This seems like a pretty heavy burden on @StewGoin.  Not to mention, is it a blocker if @StewGoin is out or on vacation?
BCDA has a security checklist process which we go through _before_ doing any work, and get it approved by @StewGoin.  Is this new process intended to deprecate that?

Author: I think you're reading it backwards? Jason only needs to get tagged for a "Yes" to the question _below_ that.

Or am I misunderstanding you?

Reviewer 3: True, though it takes at least a second pass to be sure.  How about:
"If the answer to the below question is . . ."

Reviewer 2: Ahhh, yes I think you are right.  If I am _now_ understanding you correctly, Jason only gets tagged for this question:
```Do you think this PR requires additional review of its security implications for other reasons?```

I definitely thought it applied to the above section, likely due to the raw format of the file under review.  I suspect, that once properly formatted with markdown, there will be no confusion here.  

Thanks for clarifying.

Author: Any concerns with that, then? I think it's prompting folks to ask themselves, "_should_ I maybe talk to Jason about this first?" Which is a good thing to think about!

And yeah, if he's out, then... 🤷. It can likely wait. And if it can't, then folks are smart enough to ask for help, I think.

Reviewer 2: Totally agree.  I've seen lots of folks do this naturally, but having the prompt in the template is definitely worthwhile.

    * Do you think this PR requires additional review of its security implications for other reasons? **Yes** or **No**.

### What Needs to Be Deployed Before this PR?

> This PR cannot be deployed until the following pre-requisite changes have been fully deployed:

Reviewer: Are you saying the PR can be merged when it's not deployable? I remember conversations about writing code intelligent enough to know whether it can run safely or putting it behind a feature flag, but not making  master un-deployable until some other thing happens.

If we are going to add verbiage about using feature flags to protect execution of code until a subsequent merge occurs, we should also document the feature flag and/or add a ticket to remove the flag when the required thing has happened.

Author: I very much agree that feature flags are a best practice we should adopt! I tend to think we're quite a ways off from baking that into our standards and default practices, though. You?

(Also: tweaked the wording here a bit. That better for now?)

Author: @DeirdreHolub (bump)

* CMSgov/some_repo#42

<!--
Add some items to the list above, or remove the entire section if it doesn't apply.

Common items include:
* Database migrations (which should always go out in PRs by themselves, to reduce risk).
* New features in external dependencies (e.g. BFD).
-->

### Submitter Checklist

Before requesting final review, I've gone through and verified that this PR complies with the following requirements:

> 

Reviewer 4: I'd add another checkbox, which we have in our templates in AB2D, along these lines: "I have verified that tests/code quality checks pass locally against the branch". Even though PRs are going to get checked automatically by CI tools, having a checkbox like this one would help deter folks from submitting changes they haven't bothered running tests on. Just my two cents.

Author: Yeah, I saw that one in your template and thought about including it.

I think, though, that's not worth having strong opinions about: I myself prefer to run things locally but I've worked with lots of folks who really do prefer to let the CI do it for them. Different strokes for different folks, I think?

> * [ ] I've verified that this PR is as small as it can reasonably be, in order to:

Reviewer 5: What would you want a developer to do if they realize, "Oh no, this is definitely too big of a PR!"? Is there a standard or best-practice for refining the scope of a PR that we could point to? Basically, how we'd like them to dig themselves out of the hole?

Author: Great suggestion!

I had trouble finding articles that were 100% on-topic for this, but I just tweaked the wording and added a couple of references that I think get the job done in concert.

Better?

Reviewer 6: Seconding @johnfrenchxyz 's question. I'm not sure there's a clean way to recover if you've reached the point of creating a large PR. This is something we need to be mindful of when creating tickets and while work is being done. Are you making more changes than you expected? Can this work be broken into smaller tasks?

Reviewer 5: I think your update gives more context. And I agree that this is more of a pre-PR challenge in ticket creation, grooming, etc. I live having the check from a culture standpoint. I think I am good with the checkbox now if we push to make this a priority in ticket creation.

Author: FWIW, you can break up a branch/PR after it's gotten too large. It's not a lot of fun, but I've done it.

That said, both of you are **very** correct that it's better to try and prevent than to fix! I'll leave the wording here, as updated, for now but leave a mental note that this might need to be revisited in the future. (Don't think I can add a comment to the Markdown in the middle of the list, or I'd leave a note there for submitters. 🤷)

Reviewer 3: If we're intending prevention rather than fixing, I'm not sure the PR template is the right place for it.  We risk having so much in here that no one reads/thinks through it all.

    1. Ensure that any problems it causes have a small "blast radius".
    2. Ensure that it'll be easier to rollback if that becomes necessary.
    3. Ease the burden on reviewers.

> * [ ] I've verified that the individual commits in this PR all:

Reviewer 2: Does this matter?  If we are using "Squash and Merge", then this won't matter, right?  
I'm worried that this will be hard to follow, specifically in situations where a heavy dose of troubleshooting is occurring, and sometimes the commit comments are simply "fixing" or "reverting" (for example).

Author: I think we have an item in the Engineering Standards right now asking folks to _not_ squash.

Personally, I'm a big fan of a rich & useful history. I **like** knowing how the code evolved as it was drafted: that this line had a bug that was fixed, that that other function was renamed to be more clear, etc. I also think it's good just to be honest about how code doesn't just pop into the world fully-formed and beautiful.

However. That's just a personal opinion, and not a strong enough one that it really rises to the level of needing to be a DASG-wide standard.

Double-however! I think it's useful -- for consistency's sake -- for DASG to have a single merge strategy that gets used across all the projects. Makes it easier for folks to play in other projects.

What are your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I'm a big fan of `Squash and Merge` as it keeps the commit history in `master` clean.  If digging is necessary, the PR from which code was added can be tracked down, and then the commit history can be viewed there.  Personal preference, I guess.

Reviewer 3: Using squash and merge would also care for the concerns in the previous checkbox.

Author: @msnook, et al. I've tweaked the wording here to allow for programs that opt to use squash and merge. I want to mention _something_ along these lines still, as I think the squash and merge commit message starts off as a big combo of all the other commit messages, right?

Open to suggestions for better wording here!

    1. Reasonably explain the "what" and "why" of the changes.

>     2. Leverage JIRA's [smart commits](https://confluence.atlassian.com/jirasoftwarecloud/processing-issues-with-smart-commits-788960027.html) to reference the JIRA ticket that they're associated with.

Reviewer: Are you referring to linking **to** the JIRA ticket or **from** the JIRA ticket to the github PR? both are possible and your intent here is not clear.

> * [ ] I've verified that this PR includes all required documentation changes, including changelog / release notes entries.

Reviewer 2: Release note entries?  In BCDA's current process, the PR is self-documenting... in other words, the release notes are generated from the list of PRs included in the release.

Reviewer 4: True for AB2D as well (we're using `gren`).

Author: Then you're okay?

Reviewer: Can we please add something about README updates consistent with the change? How about `this PR includes all required documentation changes, including README updates and changelog / release notes entries.`

Author: Excellent suggestion, Deirdre!

Also, as a complete aside, are you familiar with GitHub's new "suggestion" feature? See #6 here: <https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/reviewing-proposed-changes-in-a-pull-request>. Also worth mentioning that GH also now supports multi-line comments and suggestions: you click and drag on the "+" instead of just single-clicking. (Apologies if you were already familiar with these -- just trying to spread the good news!)

> * [ ] I've verified that all new and modified code is appropriately commented, such that the what and why of its design would be reasonably clear to engineers unfamiliar with the project.

Reviewer: There will be code that simply will not be reasonably clear to engineers unfamiliar with the project, typically because the code requires significant domain knowledge or significant understanding of an uncommon framework. How about `reasonably clear to engineers, preferably ones unfamiliar with the project.`

* [ ] I've verified that all tech debt and/or shortcomings introduced by this PR is detailed in `TODO` and/or `FIXME` comments, which include a JIRA ticket ID for any items that require urgent attention.

> * [ ] I've requested review from at least two other engineers on this project (at least one of whom is a senior engineer or owns the relevant component(s) here).

Reviewer: Why are we including this here when presumably github will enforce this?

Author: The "senior" part can't be automatically enforced, to the best of my knowledge.

Reviewer 3: The "senior" part is also not something we usually emphasize on our teams generally.

-->

**JIRA Ticket:**
[SOMEPROJECT-42](https://jira.cms.gov/browse/SOMEPROJECT-42)

**User Story or Bug Summary:**
<!-- Please copy-paste the brief user story or bug description that this PR is intended to address. -->

### What Does This PR Do?

<!--
Add detailed discussion of changes here
This is likely a summary, or the complete contents, of your commit messages.
-->

### What Should Reviewers Watch For?

If you're reviewing this PR, please check these things, in particular:

* TODO

<!--
Add some items to the list above, or remove the entire section if it doesn't apply for some reason.

Common items include:
* Is this likely to address the goals expressed in the user story?
* Are any additional documentation updates needed?
* Are there any unhandled and/or untested edge cases you can think of?
* Is user input properly sanitized & handled?
* Does this make any backwards-incompatible changes that might break end user clients?
* Can you find any bugs if you run the code locally and test it manually?
-->

### What Security Implications Does This PR Have?

Submitters should complete the following questionnaire:

> * If the answer to any of the questions below is **Yes**, then here's a link to the associated Security Impact Assessment: N/A.

Reviewer 3: There's more nuance here.  In BCDA, we have a security checklist that helps us determine whether an SIA is needed (it asks these questions and more); linking to the security checklist would be an appropriate substitute if a SIA was _not_ needed.  

In DPC, we follow a similar but less formal process.   Our understanding is that context matters; for instance, a non-security-related dependency that is limited to development or CI/CD should not trigger a SIA.  If we're not sure, we do reach out to @StewGoin, but almost always in a more private forum than the public PR review.

This may just be something each team has to tweak to fit their security process.

Author: @dhgreene If we can at all manage it, I'd prefer to avoid having teams customize their templates, as that will make change management a mess -- it'll be a lot harder to roll out changes to this template if everyone's customized it.

Can you suggest any wording changes/additions here that would make it a better fit for BCDA & DPC?

Also worth noting that this language was cleared with @StewGoin ahead of this PR going out. That's not to say it can't be improved! Merely pointing out that it's at least _sufficient_ from his perspective.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the answer to any of the questions below is **Yes**, then here's a link to the associated Security Impact Assessment (SIA) (or security checklist documenting why a SIA is not needed): N/A.
```

Author: @dhgreene What about this, instead?
```suggestion
* If the answer to any of the questions below is **Yes**, then here's a link to the associated Security Impact Assessment (SIA), security checklist, or other similar document in Confluence: N/A.
```

    * Does this PR add any new software dependencies? **Yes** or **No**.
    * Does this PR modify or invalidate any of our security controls? **Yes** or **No**.
    * Does this PR store or transmit data that was not stored or transmitted before? **Yes** or **No**.
* If the answer to any of the questions below is **Yes**, then please add @StewGoin as a reviewer, and note that this PR should not be merged unless/until he also approves it.

>     * Do you think this PR requires additional review of its security implications for other reasons? **Yes** or **No**.

Reviewer 7: Shouldn't the process be that Jason reviews and approves the SIA? Does he also have to approve the PR?

Author: Only when a SIA isn't required but the submitter still thinks he should take a look at the PR.

Very open to suggestions on better wording, here.

### What Needs to Be Merged and Deployed Before this PR?

This PR cannot be either merged or deployed until the following pre-requisite changes have been fully deployed:

* CMSgov/some_repo#42

<!--
Add some items to the list above, or remove the entire section if it doesn't apply.

Common items include:

> * Database migrations (which should always go out in PRs by themselves, to reduce risk).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Database migrations (which should always be deployed by themselves, to reduce risk).
```

        
        ```
        Added the whizbang to the doodad.

        The new whizbang should really simplify things for our whoosit users.
        It was a bit tricky to get it into the doodad, but we decided that the
        flipwhee pattern was the best approach for now. Might want to revisit
        that in the future if it ends up being too hard to maintain.

        SOMEPROJECT-42
        ```
        
* [ ] I've verified that this PR includes all required documentation changes, including `README` updates and changelog / release notes entries.
* [ ] I've verified that all new and modified code is appropriately commented, such that the what and why of its design would be reasonably clear to engineers, preferably ones unfamiliar with the project.
* [ ] I've verified that all tech debt and/or shortcomings introduced by this PR is detailed in `TODO` and/or `FIXME` comments, which include a JIRA ticket ID for any items that require urgent attention.

> * [ ] I've requested review from at least two other engineers on this project, at least one of whom is a senior engineer or owns the relevant component(s) here.

Author: @DeirdreHolub and @dhgreene I'm thinking of striking this item entirely and instead asking each team's tech lead to use GitHub's "code owners" and branch protection features to designate a list of "approving engineers" for the whole repository.

Thoughts?

For reference: https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners

Author: Whoops, that's the wrong link. Fixed it.

Author: Going to hold off on this change for now, as getting that deployed everywhere will be a project. I still want to do it (always better to automate stuff like that!) but I'm kicking the can down the road for a bit.

> * [ ] I've requested review from at least two other engineers on this project (at least one of whom is a senior engineer or owns the relevant component(s) here).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* [ ] I've requested review from at least two other engineers on this project, at least one of whom is a senior engineer or owns the relevant component(s) here.
```
This looks like a suggestion and not a requirement if it's in parentheses. But maybe it is a suggestion...?

* [ ] I've requested review from any relevant engineers on other projects (e.g. BFD, SLS, etc.).

> * [ ] I've verified that this PR and its changes comply with all other policies in the [DASG Engineering Standards](../policies/engineering_standards.md) and have specifically called out any/all deviations in this PR.

Author: @DeirdreHolub Does this address the concern you'd mentioned elsewhere?

```suggestion
* [ ] I've verified that this PR and its changes comply with all other policies in the [DASG Engineering Standards](../policies/engineering_standards.md) and have specifically called out any/all deviations in this PR.
    * If you haven't reviewed the standards in the last few months, please do!
```

Reviewer: It's the wording of the assertion that is at issue. How about `I've done my best to write this PR and its changes in compliance with all other` and  the of the words.

Author: I believe my recent changes address this concern.

> * [ ] I've verified that this PR and its changes comply with all other policies in the [DASG Engineering Standards](../policies/engineering_standards.md) and have specifically called out any/all deviations in this PR.

Author: @DeirdreHolub Or perhaps this?
```suggestion
* [ ] I've verified that this PR and its changes comply with all other policies in the [DASG Engineering Standards](../policies/engineering_standards.md) and have specifically called out any/all deviations in this PR.
    * Please review the standards every few months to ensure you're familiar with them.
```

Reviewer 7: Why not directly ask PR writers to list deviations from the DASG engineering standard? It's a tone comment. Checklists should be easy to scan. The "I have verified this PR and its changes" statements make theses statement list items hard to scan and easy to automatically check.

Author: Excellent suggestion! I believe my recent changes address this concern.

        
        ```
        Added the whizbang to the doodad.

        The new whizbang should really simplify things for our whoosit users.
        It was a bit tricky to get it into the doodad, but we decided that the
        flipwhee pattern was the best approach for now. Might want to revisit
        that in the future if it ends up being too hard to maintain.

        SOMEPROJECT-42
        ```
        
* [ ] This PR includes any required documentation changes, including `README` updates and changelog / release notes entries.
* [ ] All new and modified code is appropriately commented, such that the what and why of its design would be reasonably clear to engineers, preferably ones unfamiliar with the project.
* [ ] All tech debt and/or shortcomings introduced by this PR are detailed in `TODO` and/or `FIXME` comments, which include a JIRA ticket ID for any items that require urgent attention.
* [ ] Reviews are requested from both:
    * At least two other engineers on this project, at least one of whom is a senior engineer or owns the relevant component(s) here.
    * Any relevant engineers on other projects (e.g. BFD, SLS, etc.).

> * [ ] Any deviations from the other policies in the [DASG Engineering Standards](../policies/engineering_standards.md) are specifically called out in this PR, above.

Reviewer 8: Should we make this path absolute so that when used outside of this repo the link resolves?

Author: Excellent idea -- done!
